I want to be a petroleum engineer. And it hurt that
you go there and you don't have a problem getting a
job. And so... What did you know? How did you know
A&M existed? What was your information about A&M?
There really wasn't that many people in Rockwall.
There was... When I got there in 51, there was one
person I knew who was a senior vet medicine student
from Rockwall. And, of course, I talked to him, and
also I talked to the guy or two that had gone down to
the University of Texas, and they were taking
something else. But they advised me that it really
ought to be going to Petroleum Engineering. That
was where all the jobs and everybody was doing real
well at major teams. So, there
really, at that time, there really weren't that,
there wasn't that strong a hold, and it wasn't very
big. At the time, it was 1,499 people, very small
school, and a small estate, small county estate.
Let's see, I should put this on, since I didn't have
it turned on when I asked you that first question
about why did you go. This is the 18th of June,
Thursday afternoon. We're in Fort Worth, talking
to Charlie Sealy. Did you visit the campus before
you went down to enroll? Yes. And what was your
impression? Oh, I loved it. Yeah. Oh, yeah. This
would have been in the... on the spring of 51 and the
MSC had just been built and what a spectacular
place it was. What was their living? That
building, but were there some, were there
something that they did or didn't do? Were there
people? What impression did you get? Well, I got
the impression then just like you do now. It's a
very friendly campus.
Were you there for an official kind of orientation
visit, or did you just go? I don't think they had the
orientation type things then. They're taking the
entrance test or something. Was this with mom and
dad? Yes. Are you a first generation college
student? Yes. All right, now let's move forward to
the fall. How did you get there, and what did you
take with you? I've heard of several people that
give this same type of thing, and I swear to
goodness, it's just almost the same. It's a mom and
dad take them down and let them out, and there you
are all of a sudden with a footlocker and a few
clothes and almost no money, and you're left.
That's the way it happened. No car. And no friends.
Was there anybody that kind of took charge and
helped you? How did you get to a room that night? How
did you get to the Dunning Hall? How did you know
where those places were? Well, of course, back
then, of course, we were in Munich. And once I
finally found the dorm, I don't remember exactly
how, but once I found the dormer, it wasn't much of a
problem then on. So what unit were you in? I was in
squadron five in dorm 15. This is when we still had
the freshman area. And all the freshmen were
together with two or three seniors, a couple of
juniors, and two or three sophomores. But all
freshmen were back on the main campus Nobody was
out at O'Brien Air Force Base. No, that's right.
And did your squadron have a nickname? No. No, but
we were one about everything. Do you know how you
happened to end up in that squadron instead of some
other? I don't think there was. At least I didn't
know. I think you could probably do it now. But I
didn't know about it. Because, like with the Army,
you had field artillery and this and this, but the
Air Force was just all. And y'all were living, was
it a whole, was it all a fish dorm? Yes. Describe
your room as a freshman. What was in, you and your
roommate, what was in that room? The same thing
that's in there now. Same old dorms. I'm sure that
dorm's still there. Two beds, two tables, two
chairs, a sink, two closets, that's it. Two
bulletin boards. Was your roommate, did he become
a special friend? Your official lady? Well, this
was a little unusual. When I got
there, I ended up, at the time, They had a very big
class and they were short on room space. As a
result, they had to tie a third bed bunk and put a
third person in there. Well, I think I must have
been in the middle because I had two roommates,
both of which I really couldn't pronounce their
name and I couldn't understand them. Fish on, I was
off the hook and Fish would eat him. who we really
became good friends later. But I did and was able to
let them stay together and move out just to a single
person. And his name was Edwin Dean Bubba Bennett,
who later drowned at summer camp his junior year.
So I understand what Silvertown's old campus is
like. Let's see, describe the campus when you
were, what buildings were there and where were
they when you were a fish? Okay, being in basic
engineering, which is generally what they do,
most of the classes were in the academic and
faculty hall. Is faculty still there? Let's see, I
think I might have had a basic course over in the
geology building. I think maybe, of course, I had
chemistry over in the chemistry building. And
then maybe a basic course over in what I think was
the old Aggieland Inn, which is just across from
Sosa Vista. and all the meals were excellent.
Describe how fish were treated your freshman
year. Give me an
example. If you see anything on TV concerning some
of the,
I guess it was VMI, it's very similar to that. And
yes or
no,
there's no excuse, sir. Always in the race. See,
for a client, particularly one that's in the unit,
I always speak to
him. Meals were really... Kind of an unusual time.
Did you all sit all fish at the same table? All fish,
yes. Well, no. We had a couple of classes in each one
of the tables. Only one? Generally speaking, one.
With all other fish? All other fish. Okay, because
that's a little different from the routine I've
heard others describe. Well, this back in this
time. No, I know. That's... All right, so... Y'all
were allowed to, were there any things you were or
were not allowed to eat? Well, of course you didn't
get cooked. Oh, okay. Unless you answered a
question. Okay. And you had to know all the
descriptions. Usually one of the questions was
the descriptions on the bill and every other
ridiculous thing in the world that you can think
about and can't think about. Was there any
question that was... legendary that kind of
everybody asked, everybody failed? Was there
any?
I don't know if there was. I don't remember. I'm
sure there was something that you never could
answer. Yeah, I know what you mean. Let's see.
Describe a typical weekday routine from the time
y'all got up to the time you went to bed at night?
What happened to when? Well, the first thing, of
course, you'd have a glissom job, blowing the
glissom in the dawn. Waking up, first call, second
call, and fall
out. About what time? I want to think it was 6.30, as
soon as possible. I think we'd get down, fall out
about 7, and then we'd have to be in class at 8. Then,
of course, they'd tell you what uniform to wear, if
it's raining or whatever. Of course, we wore the
uniform every day.
But then we had
to fall out and hold
inspection.
And then walk to chapel. And you all ate in? In
Subesa. In Subesa, yeah. And then after that, walk
back, clean up the room. night class, whatever the
classes are, come back, fall out for chow again,
and barf for chow again. and classes and labs and
whatever it is you need to do. That would
normally be up until about 5 o'clock, and then at
5, you know, you could do even flight football or
different things like that. In many cases, when
the company bull rings, you have to go out and walk
for hours on end. Not necessarily food.
It would just be a company thing. It wouldn't be
reported to, at that time, Ross Hall. In the
evenings, after supper, what was the routine?
I think we got back up about 7.30. We'd have CQ until
about 10 o'clock. As a freshman and as a sophomore,
at least 60 points on the floor. Four on the chair
and you're three feet.
And if you had the other restroom or anything like
that, you'd have to put a pass on your name tag out on
the outside of the door. Then
there'd
be lights out at about 10, 30, something like that.
Give me examples from any of your years of some good
little tricks, jokes, pranks that you knew about,
whether you were involved in them or not. Do you
remember the
old water
tower? It's a long way up. I guess this was my
sophomore year. I stayed
over the freshman. I stayed over the first
semester of my sophomore year, freshman year and
sophomore year. I
remember getting a couple of freshmen, my
roommate, going up on the Yard Tower and facing the
ball there on top of that thing. The Air Force Blue.
I don't remember, but I know this. It took off some
paint, and there must have been 20 or 30 coats of
paint on that ball. All different coats. You were
not the first, were you? No. A lot of red. Where did
y'all get the paint?
Gee, you know, I really don't know. And what hours
of the night did y'all go up there? Oh, it must have
been probably one o'clock or something like that.
How long would it take to go from ground up? How long
was the climb? Well, I don't think it was that long,
except he was pretty far. He was kind of where he
had. It would probably be 20 minutes from the time
he was on the ground. And this is after 1030? No,
this is after 1030. And so it was the very top of the
water tower that was painted? No, just the bottom.
That's right. Okay. And how did you all secure
yourselves as you were on the very top painting?
Well, all four of us couldn't get out there. Thank
goodness. So I was up at the top of the edge. I was
getting one fresh one that made it out there and did
the painting. So on each other's shoulders and
that sort of thing? No, no, no. There's a ladder
that goes up. There's a ladder on top of it. So you
have a ladder to go on. It's still a little spooky
out there. About how many nights did it take? Just
one night. Oh, one night. No, it's just a big ball.
It's probably 24 inches. And how long, do you
remember how long it was before somebody else's
group went up there and painted it a different
color? I don't think it took too
long. Oh. McCabe probably had artillery red. All
right, do you remember any pranks, a good blow on
somebody? Well, let me tell you this one. This is
pretty different. I had a pretty fancy roommate as
a sophomore there. I just followed along with the
manager. But we went over to Memorial Stadium and
we had two carloads, two sophomores and a
freshman. It was moving
in
the fall
of 50, early September, October of 52. And at that
time, we were going to the grass field. And by the
time we got there, it must have been 2 or 3 o'clock in
the morning. And we took some oats. It's spelled
out. And of course I'm 55, 56 for the freshmen that
did a lot of work. And went
out and talked it in real well.
I'll have to say it looked pretty good on
Thanksgiving Day on national television. That's
great. That's great. How many participated in
that? Well, there's two cars, so I'm guessing
probably about 10. And nobody got caught, no hint,
no anything?
No. All right. But they came back the next year. But
they weren't quite as smart as we were, because
ours showed up so well. We probably had letters
that were maybe 20 yards or so tall. They went all
the way across Kyle Field. But it was right on a yard
line. So it really didn't show up in the U. It was the
same way. It made it square. So it really didn't
show up nearly as dramatic as they are today. Now,
was it known on campus who had done this? I don't
know that anybody knows. So y'all kept it a secret
for a long time. Oh, OK. All right, what about some
pranks played on somebody on the campus? Some
upperclassmen that y'all didn't like? We had all
kinds of different things going on.
I mean, let me think about that just a minute. Like,
surely y'all stole a footlocker every now and
then. I mean, hit a footlocker. Well,
of course, the big thing back then was drowning out
the whole dorm. And, boy, you end up doing that. I
mean, getting bothered. They take the head off of
one of the colognes. And they just do it on the top
floor. I do remember waking up. In the middle of the
night, I probably hadn't been there in months. It
was fresh water. The water was just going
everywhere. Coming down the steps, it looked like
a, I mean, it looked like a waterfall. Everybody's
out there, you know, in the middle of the night,
sweeping water. It seemed like it took until
daylight just about to finally get all the water
swept out of it on. I knew they
weren't good. Let's go the other way. Did you lock
your room door? Normally during the day or night? I
don't think we did. Did you ever have anything
stolen? No. Do you remember anybody that did? No. I
don't think we ever had anything stolen. Let's
see, did you all ever roll anything under
anybody's door with any kind of explosive inside
it?
No, but I'll tell you, we did have a guy who we had our
own radio station. It's watered by. Oh, tell them
about that. The guy's name was Charlie Parker, who
actually went into radio, I think, after that. And
he really had quite a show. He played music and so
forth. The whole dawn would be listening to him
instead of the regular radio. Did he have an
identification, call letters or anything? No, I
don't think so. And it was just so weak. The FCC did
not know that. The FCC did not know that. That's
correct. But you all didn't have any Babel bombs?
I remember...
No, really, I don't remember that. Alright, what
about nicknames for food and beverages in the chow
hall? Oh, they're the same as they always were.
Share them with me. Well, bread, you know,
gunwale, bullock, lube for gravy.
Milk, tea? Cow, you know. I don't remember what tea
it was. Was that horse? Beans?
Gas?
Was that beans?
But anyway, it was there. And were all desserts
Cush? All of them were Cush. Let's see, how did you
dress for class?
Always in a uniform. What about men? I never went to
a class before, I don't know, all four years, I
didn't have a uniform. And normally, you either
had the choice of being in the, at that time, the
fatigues were not capitalized, they were good.
And so either you wore a uniform. And we really
didn't have combat boots. Either you wore your
fatigue with a cap or your normal either green or
pink shredder in the wintertime or khaki in the
summer. A while ago I thought of a question that I
haven't asked anybody else. Do you remember your
first fish haircut? Oh, yeah. Where'd you get it? I
was at MSC downstairs. I thought it was ruined
forever. What did it look like when you looked in
the mirror? There wasn't much hair. I mean, it was
just flat on top. Do you remember whether it took
long for him to do it? No, no, I didn't
think it took long. Did a group of you fish go
together? Yeah, I recall we had about five or six
officers waiting for the last minute that you had
to. And let's see, was there any other
nomenclature involved other than a fish haircut,
white sidewalls? Was that a part of the nickname
for it? For the haircut? No. So it was just a fish
haircut. All right. Describe then how your life
was different as a sophomore. A little, a little of
what I told you about in the sophomore year. But
at least, as you well know, the only friend that you
have on the campus in the school, or your fish
buddy, or your sophomore buddy, or your junior
buddy, whoever it is, It's certainly not the
upper-class one or the lower-class one. So as a
sophomore in St. Lyons,
I didn't particularly enjoy being in the freshman
area as a sophomore.
That really wasn't why I wanted to go. The second
semester I ended up going on over to Yeah, the
freshman area and also the core area, I guess, the
new area, as you call it. Yeah, I lived over there
the second semester. It's part of 10th, which is
the, back then it was the smart spot. So you were,
you know, over in the Duncan dining hall. Yes. Was
there anything different about eating, dining in
Duncan compared to Sabeasa? I think so. I think the
food is about the same. They kind of did it the same
way and so forth. Only this time we have
seniors, juniors, and a lot more. In hindsight,
describe Aggie food. Well, I thought it was good. A
lot of the other people didn't necessarily like
it, but gee, compared to being growing up on a farm
and when we had beans, you know, different types of
beans, at least four or five days a week. Those
ready pork chops and things weren't that bad. Do
you remember what it cost your semester or year? I
think, if I'm not mistaken, the room and the board
caused it. Everything was about $250 a semester.
That was everything. Did you have a job ever on
campus? No, but I worked very intensely all during
the summer. What did you do? What kind of jobs did
you have? Different things. Construction for a
couple of years there. Oil field for one year and
then the next year. The summer camp, which I had
spent time working at the aluminum factory.
So were you able to earn enough in the summers to
pretty well pay your bill? Pretty close. Pretty
close. About how much money did you spend, let's
say free spending money? None. But, you know, the
last two years, if you sign a contract, then they
pay you about $30 a month or something like that. I
think it's about $100. It wasn't a lot. Boy, we
thought it was marvelous at the time. Well, I
didn't have a car. So if I left at all, I didn't
hitchhike. Back then, there wasn't a problem at
all. We had the line, which was... Now, where would
that line be? Where did you go to catch the line
from? From, say,
Bryan to
St. Alex 4. It was down just on the north side of, I
guess it's Highway 6. Very important. All right,
so you went downtown Bryan to... All right, now
how'd you get from campus down there? I can't tell
you. I do not remember. I'm sure I probably just
been driving through. Somebody just got a ride
with someone. There were no cars going back and
forth. In Rockwall, where did you get off? It
wasn't really easy, but there was a place in Downs
where you'd have to go down. And it was on Highway
75. I wouldn't go there now. It'd really be right in
the south area. I don't think it was right there.
And you came down Highway 75 to Madisonville?
Actually, no. He turned off at... Turned off at
Richland, south of Corsicana? That's correct.
Okay. And go to Bahia. And then to Bahia to have a
party. Did you ever have any unusual hitchhiking
experiences that you can share?
There are. There are. I don't know how you live
through those. One time I was in Houston. the day
that I ended up married. We had gone together in
high school. Her father was the principal of the
school at Rockwell. We ended up moving to
Paulsville, just east of Longview. For some
reason, I thought, it was my freshman year, I
thought I had to go see her. I hitchhiked from
Houston all the way to Longview to Paulsville and
then back. I think I might have had a riot back, but
getting up there and going through some of the East
Texas oil fields with this roughneck who was
absolutely, had been working day and night and
couldn't stay awake. I really didn't know whether
we were going to make it or not. And then one time
coming back from Houston, I can remember
for some reason in a uniform, attracted maybe some
of the most undesirable people. And I ended up
getting out of the car at Hempstead to catch
another
accident. You know, I didn't think anything at all
about Hempstead. Did you ever hear of any of your
friends having any truly bad... Not a real
problem. Nobody shared one of those with me yet?
All right, now let's do some academics. As you
think back on it, who were some of the, for you, who
were some of the important teachers and or
advisors, counselors?